1
Who said it, to whom? "Why don’t you eat? Why are you downhearted? Don’t I mean more to you than ten sons?" (1 Samuel 1:8)
Elkanah said it to Hannah
Elkanah said it to Peninnah
David said it to Abigail
Phinehas said it to his wife
1
Who said it, and to whom? "Not so, my lord, I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking wine or beer; I was pouring out my soul to the Lord." (1 Samuel 1:14-15)
Hannah said it to Eli
Abigail said it to David
Peninnah said it to Eli
Bathsheba said it to Nathan
2
Situation question: Who said it, and to whom? "Samuel! Samuel!" (1 Samuel 3:10)
God said it to Samuel
Samuel said it to God
Eli said it to Samuel
Saul said it to Samuel
2
Situation question: Who said it and what was the response? "If one person sins against another, God may mediate for the offender; but if anyone sins against the Lord, who will intercede for them?" (1 Samuel 2:25)
Eli said it, and his sons did not listen to their father's rebuke
Samuel said it, and the Lord regretted he had made Saul king
Samuel said it, and his sons did not listen to their father's rebuke
Eli said it, and his sons repented
3
Situation question. Who said it, and when? "They have brought the ark of the god of Israel around to us to kill us and our people." (1 Samuel 5:10
The people of Ekron said it as the ark of God was entering Ekron
The people of Beth Shemesh said it when they looked in the ark
The Israelite soldiers said it as the ark entered the camp
The people of Gath said it when the Lord afflicted them with an outbreak of tumors
3
Situation question. Who said it, and and in response to what? "What is the meaning of this uproar?"
Eli said it in response to the outcry
Saul said it in response to the Philistines melting in all directions
David said it in response to Goliath's challenge
Eli said it in response to seeing Hannah moving her mouth without speaking
4
Who asked it, and in response to what? “Who can stand in the presence of the Lord, this holy God?" (1 Samuel 6:19-20)
The people of Beth Shemesh said it after The Lord put seventy of them to death because they looked into the ark of the Lord
Eli asked it when Samuel told him all that The Lord had said
David asked it when he slew Goliath
Saul asked it when he offered sacrifices to God
4
Who said it, and what was the response? “Now then, get a new cart ready, with two cows that have calved and have never been yoked. Hitch the cows to the cart, but take their calves away and pen them up."
The priests and diviners said it, and the response was they (the Philistines) did this.
The five kings of the Philistines said it, and the response was they (the Philistines) did this.
David said it, and the response was "no"
The men of Beth Shemesh said it, and the response was to take the ark of the Lord to Kiriath Jearim
5
Who said it and why? “Do not stop crying out to the Lord our God for us, that he may rescue us from the hand of the Philistines.” (1 Samuel 7:7-8)
Isarael said it because they were afraid of the Philistines 
Samuel said it because the Philistines were attacking
David's brothers said it because they were scared of Golaith
Jonathan's servant said it because the Philistines were taunting them
5
Who said it and where? “Thus far the Lord has helped us.” (1 Samuel 7:12)
Samuel said it between Mizpah and Shen
Samuel said it at Shiloh
David said it between Sokoh and Azekah
David said it in Jerusalem
5
Who said it, to whom? “No!” “We want a king over us." (1 Samuel 8:19)
The people (of Israel) said it to Samuel
The people (of Israel) said it to Eli
The people of Shiloh said it to Eli
The people of Shiloh said it to Daid
6
Who said it and what was the response? "Would you please tell me where the seer's house is?" (1 Samuel 9:18-19)
Saul said it and the response was "I am the seer"
David said it and the response was "The seer is dead"
Samuel said it, and the response was "Go to the house of Judas on Straight Street"
Saul said it and the response was "This is not the road and this is not the city. Follow me, and I will lead you to the man you are looking for."